The text pre-processing procedure, is divided into 3 tasks:
* Tokenization (_preprocessingmodule.nlp.Tokenizer.java_)
* Stopwords removal (_preprocessingmodule.nlp.stopwords.StopWords.java_)
* Stemming (_preprocessingmodule.nlp.stemming.Stemmer.java_ and language specific stemmers)

StanfordCoreNLP Library was used for the tokenization process, while Apache Lucene Analysis was employed for the stemming procedure.

**1. How to add new languages for the stemming procedure?**

You have to implement the Stemmer interface into a new class and import the appropriate library from the Apache Lucene Analysis library. Also, take a look at question 2.

**2. How to add new language codes, if I implement a new language for stemming?**

You have to update three classes that reside in the _preprocessingmodule.language_ package, namely _LangUtils.java_, _Language.java_ and _LanguageCodes.java_. All three classes must be updated.

**3. How to add new stopwords that will be removed from the text during the stopwords removal procedure?**

There are two ways.
* Update the stopwords file manually: Go to _/src/resources/stop-words/_ and update the specific language file you wish.
* Add a new file in the stopwords directory. The file must be a UTF-8 .txt file with one stopword per line.

If you follow the second approach, you have to add the new file's name in the _loadStopWords()_ method in _preprocessingmodule.nlp.stopwords.StopWords.java_ class. It is recommended to add the name as a value in the _config.properties_ file and create the appropriate getter methods in the _utilities.Config.java_ class.